WARREN: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Stumpf, the Wells Fargo Vision and Values
Statement -- which you frequently cite -- says:
"We believe in values lived not phrases memorized.
If you want to find out how strong a company's
ethics are, don't listen to what
its people say, watch what they do."
So let's do that.
Since this massive years-long scam came to
light, you have said repeatedly, "I am accountable."
But what have you actually done to hold yourself
accountable?
Have you resigned as CEO or Chairman of Wells
Fargo?
STUMPF: The board, I serve at the...
WARREN: Have you resigned?
STUMPF: No I've not.
WARREN: All right.
Have you returned one nickel of the millions
of dollars that you were paid while this scam
was going on?
STUMPF: Well first of all this was by 1 percent
of our people...
WARREN: That's not my question...
STUMPF: And, and...
WARREN: My question, it's about responsibility.
Have you returned one nickel of the millions
of dollars that you were paid while this scam
was going on?
STUMPF: The board will take care of that.
WARREN: Have you returned one nickel of the
money you earned while this scam was going on?
STUMPF: And the board will do...
WARREN: I will take that as a no then.
Have you fired a single senior executive?
And by that I don't mean a regional manager
or branch manager.
I'm asking about the people who actually led
your community banking division
or your compliance division?
STUMPF: We've made a change in our regional,
to lead our regional bank....
WARREN: I just said, I'm not asking about
regional managers, I'm not asking about branch
managers, I'm asking if you have fired senior
management.
The people you actually led community banking
division, who oversaw this fraud, or the compliance
division that was in charge of making sure
that the bank complied with the law?
STUMPF: Carrie Tolstedt...
WARREN: Did you fire any of those people?
STUMPF: No.
WARREN: No.
OK.
So you haven't resigned.
You haven't returned a single nickel of your
personal earnings.
You haven't fired a single senior executive.
Instead evidently your definition of accountable
is to push the blame to your low-level employees
who don't have the money for a fancy PR firm
to defend themselves.
It's gutless leadership.
In your time as Chairman and CEO, Wells has
been famous for cross-selling -- which is pushing
existing customers to open more accounts.
Cross-selling is one of the main reasons that
Wells has become the most valuable bank in the world.
Wells measures cross-selling by the number
of different accounts a customer has with Wells.
Other big banks average fewer than three accounts
per customer.
But you set the target at eight accounts.
Every customer of Wells should have eight
accounts with the bank.
And that's not because you ran the numbers
and found that the average customer needed
eight banking accounts.
It is because "8 rhymes with great."
This was your rationale right there in your
2010 Annual Report.
Cross-selling isn't about helping customers
get what they need.
If it was, you wouldn't have to squeeze your
employees so hard to make it happen.
No, cross-selling is all about pumping up
Wells' stock price isn't it?
STUMPF: No.
Cross-selling is shorthand for deepening relationships.
We -- what we do well...
WARREN: Whoa, let me stop you right there.
You say no?
No?
STUMPF: I -- I...
WARREN: Here are the transcripts of 12 quarterly
earnings calls that you participated in from
2012 to 2014, the 3 full years in which we
know this scam was going on.
I'd like to submit them for the record, if
I may, Mr. Chair.
Thank you.
These are calls where you personally, made
your pitch to investors and analysts about
why Wells Fargo is a great investment.
And in all 12 of these calls, you personally
cited Wells Fargo's success at cross-selling
retail accounts as one of the main reasons
to buy more stock in the company.
Let me read you a few quotes that you had.
April 2012, quote, "We grew our retail banking
cross-sell ratio to a record, 5.98 products
per household."
A year later, April 2013, quote, "We achieved
record retail banking cross-sell of 6.1 products
per household."
April 2014, quote, "We achieved record retail
banking cross-sell of 6.17 products per household."
The ratio kept going up and up.
And it didn't matter whether customers used
those accounts or not.
And guess what?
Wall Street loved it.
Here, is just a sample of the reports from
top analysts in those years, all recommending
that people buy Wells Fargo stock in part
because of the strong cross-sell numbers.
And I'd like to submit them for the record.
SHELBY: Without objections.
WARREN: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
So when investors saw good cross-sell numbers
-- they did, while this scam was going on
-- that was very good for you personally,
wasn't it, Mr. Stumpf?
Do you know how much money, how much value
your stock holdings in Wells Fargo gained
while they scam was under way?
STUMPF: Well, first of all, it was not a scam.
And cross-sell is a way of deepening relationships.
When customers...
(CROSSTALK)
WARREN: We've been through this, Mr. Stumpf.
I asked you a very simple question.
Do you know how much the value of your stock
went up while this scam was going on?
STUMPF: It's all of my compensation is in
our public stock...
(CROSSTALK)
WARREN: Do you know how much it was?
STUMPF: It's all in the public filing.
WARREN: You're right, it is all in the public
records because I looked it up.
While this scam was going on, you personally
held an average of 6.75 million shares of
Wells Stock.
The share price during this time period went
up by about $30 which comes out to more than
$200 million in gains all for you personally.
And thanks, in part, to those cross-sell numbers
that you talked about on every one of those calls.
You know, here's what really gets me about
this, Mr. Stumpf.
If one of your tellers took a handful of $20
bills out of the crash drawer, they'd probably
be looking at criminal charges for theft.
They could end up in prison.
But you squeezed your employees to the breaking
point so they would cheat customers and you
could drive up the value of your stock and
put hundreds of millions of dollars in your
own pocket.
And when it all blew up, you kept your job,
you kept your multimillion dollar bonuses
and you went on television to blame thousands
of $12-an-hour employees who were just trying
to meet cross-sell quotas that made you rich.
This is about accountability.
You should resign.
You should give back the money that you took
while this scam was going on and you should
be criminally investigated by both the Department
of Justice
and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This just isn't right.
A cashier who steals a handful of $20s is
held accountable, but Wall Street executives
who almost never hold themselves accountable,
not now and not in 2008 when they crushed
the worldwide economy.
The only way that Wall Street will change,
is if executives face jail time when they
preside over massive frauds.
We need tough, new laws to hold corporate
executives personally accountable and we need
tough prosecutors who have the courage to
go after people at the top.
Until then, it will be business as usual.
And at giant banks like Wells Fargo, that
seems to be cheating as many customers, investors
and employees as they possibly can.
Thank You, Mr. Chair.
Mr. Stumpf, as you know, some of my colleagues
and I sent you a letter last week about the
board's plans to claw back compensation from
senior executives who are responsible for
overseeing this scam.
Wells Fargo provided us with a response yesterday,
I noticed that although we sent the letter
to you, that the response actually came from
somebody else in the company, which I guess
is another example of holding yourself accountable.
I wanna focus now, on the mysterious circumstances
surrounding Carrie Tolstedt's retirement in July.
As you know, Ms. Tolstedt ran the community
banking division, the division where this
scam occurred for the entire time that this
scam took place.
She was in charge of all the 5,300 employees
who were fired and she oversaw the creation
of 2 million fake accounts.
Now, in July of this year just two months
before the settlement was announced and before
those facts became public, Ms. Tolstedt retired
at age 56.
You indicated in the letter, responding to
our letter, that she walks away with over
$90 million in stocks, stock options and awards.
Fortune Magazine says it's actually about
$125 million.
But -- and here's the key part -- according
to Fortune, if Ms. Tolstedt has been fired
instead of retiring, she would've had to
forfeit as much as $45 million of that award.
Mr. Stumpf, the response to our letter confirms
that knew of this scandal.
Before Ms. Tolstedt retired, it said -- and
this is from your letter, quote, "Senior management
and the board were aware of the pending litigation,
investigation and discussions with our regulators,
relating to sales practices when Ms. Tolstedt
indicated her decision to retire."
Is that accurate, Mr. Stumpf, what this letter
says?
Were you personally aware of the massive problem
that occurred under Ms. Tolstedt's watch in
July when she announced her retirement?
STUMPF: I was aware that we were involved
in discussions with the city attorney, the
OCC and the CFPB, yes.
WARREN: So you had some indication there was
a massive problem?
STUMPF: We had some indication that we had
one percent of our people who were doing the
wrong thing.
(CROSSTALK)
WARREN: Also known as a massive problem.
STUMPF: Well...
WARREN: If you knew this, did you consider
firing Ms. Tolstedt before she retired?
STUMPF: Well, at the time she was reporting
to our president and chief operating officer
and...
(CROSSTALK)
WARREN: It's a simple question, you knew there
was a problem, did you consider firing her?
STUMPF: No because of her full...
WARREN: Seriously?
You found out that one of your divisions had
created 2 million fake accounts, had fired
thousands of employees for improper behavior
and had cheated thousands of your own customers
and you didn't even once consider firing her
ahead of her retirement?
STUMPF: In fact, when I look at her full body
of work and I look at the -- at the customer
loyalty improvement and the customer service
improvement...
(CROSSTALK)
WARREN: Are you sure that those were not fake?
STUMPF: All the work that was done, she chose
to retire and I'd also like to make one other
comment because you made...
(CROSSTALK)
WARREN: So -- so you -- no just on this, you
never considered firing her.
So now Ms. Tolstedt has apparently retired
but is also staying with the firm through
the end of the year.
And in the response to our letter, you state
-- or the person writing it -- states, quote,
"Ms. Tolstedt is eligible to be considered
for a 2016 annual incentive award."
An incentive award for doing a great job in
2016?
Mr. Stumpf, that is unbelievable.
You are the chairman of the board and the
CEO.
In those roles, do you think it would be appropriate
for Ms. Tolstedt to get another bonus on top
of the millions that she has already gotten
as a reward for her role in this massive scam?
STUMPF: The board will consider that and I
don't wanna prejudice the board but I also
want to make one comment...
(CROSSTALK)
WARREN: I don't understand that answer.
WARREN: You know, you and your board have
already made changes.
You've made changes to the compensation scheme
for thousands of employees.
You've sat here today and talked about that.
You've removed sales quotas, I think you've
told us.
You've reformed incentives.
Why can that be done quick as a wink across
the entire bank but a question about cutting
compensation for a highly placed executive
who oversaw a massive fraud takes long deliberation?
Why is that?
STUMPF: Because there's a board governance
process and we want that to work properly.
And whether Carrie was retired or she was
fired there'd be no difference with respect
to how the board can deal with that.
WARREN: I'm sorry if she was fired, it is
my understanding she would not be entitled
to large parts of her compensation.
This is not just a claw back issue we're talking
about she doesn't get them to begin with if
she gets fired.
But you let her walk out of the door with
a retirement.
I don't quite understand.
How do you explain this to your own shareholders?
STUMPF: There is a process that the board
goes through and they will do that.
They've already met...
WARREN: Mr. Stumpf...
STUMPF: ... and everyone give that their...
WARREN: I don't understand.
You keep saying there's, you know, the board,
the board, as if these are strangers that
you met in a dark alley.
Under the bylaws of Wells Fargo and I'm quoting
here: "The Chairman shall preside at all meetings
of the board."
STUMPF: (inaudible)
WARREN: You were able to make changes.
Why can you not make a change here?
STUMPF: I'm not on the Human Resources Committee
of the board.
They have their own governance and structure.
We want that to proceed in the process in
which we have.
WARREN: All right so we'll do this your way.
Our letter asked a number of questions about
claw backs of Ms. Tolstedt's and other executive's
pay, including yours.
Wells Fargo's answer to our letter was just
basically, you punted, that the decision would
be up to the board.
The same punt you've given here.
So you're the Chairman of the Board, let me
ask it this way: will you personally support
clawing back all or part of Ms. Tolstedt's
pay?
STUMPF: I'm not going to in any way try to
influence or prejudice the board as they do
their deliberation.
WARREN: So you have absolutely no opinion
on this?
STUMPF: I'm not going to opine on that--
WARREN: You're not going to opine.
You're going to say get out there, defraud,
cheat, lie, steal, and I have nothing to say
about whether or not you ought to still be
getting your bonus?
STUMPF: I never said, and I would, we'd never
say as our company, go out there and do any
of those things.
We try to do the right thing every day.
WARREN: But you say if you do them, you can
count on Chairman Stumpf not to stand up and
say you shouldn't get your incentive bonus.
STUMPF: The board has a process...
WARREN: I think you started this whole thing
by saying, don't tell me what you say, tell
me what your actions are.
And your actions are, people do this and you're
not going to take a single step to shut it down.
So I guess I can ask this question again:
will you personally support clawing back any
or all of the pay for the person in charge
of compliance? Someone we haven't talked about
much today.
The person who is supposed to be responsible
to make sure that the bank is following the law.
Will you have any recommendation about that
person?
STUMPF: I'm going to have the board do their
process.
WARREN: You are going to have no recommendation
at all?
STUMPF: I...
WARREN: Ever?
At any point in this process?
STUMPF: Whatever the board accepts, whatever
they do I will accept and I will support.
WARREN: You are not passive here.
If you have nothing to do then what are you
doing serving as Chairman of the Board?
If you have no opinions on the most massive
fraud that has hit this bank since the beginning
of time how can it be that you actually get
to continue to collect a paycheck for being
Chairman of the Board?
STUMPF: Well first of all, I disagree with
the fact this is a massive fraud.
But secondly the board will do their work
and I'm not going to prejudice their work.
And I will accept whatever they come up with
and I will be supportive.
WARREN: Now, I, you accepted all along as
this fraud built up, this massive fraud, you
accepted all of the performance bonuses based
on the cross selling that is at the heart
of this.
You watched your own stock go up by more than
$200 million based in part on exactly this
massive fraud.
You got out and you pumped it to Wall Street
and you said to Wall Street, hey we are doing
such a great job cross-selling here at Wells
Fargo, you should tell everybody to buy our stock.
And now you turn around and say I shall remain
passive and simply accept what Wells Fargo
wants to do.
You know, in 2008, Wall Street promised change.
But it looks like it is business as usual.
A giant bank cheats the little guys and the
executives line their own pockets.
Mr. Stumpf you make it clear that Wall Street
won't change until we make it change.
Thank you Mr. Chair.